All right. So you made it through the first code exercise.
I hope going through this exercise made you think of some of
the key steps that you would take when exploring a healthcare dataset.
Making sure that you analyze the dataset well can reduce major errors later.
Let's take a look at the solution in the notebook.
For this exercise, there are five parts that we covered.
We will go over first,
the data schema analysis question.
But before we do that,
let's look at the ETL.
For the ETL, I just loaded up the dataset and did a little bit of cleaning for you,
and now we have a dataset ready to analyze.
So let's now move to the data schema analysis question.
So first, we will go over
the data schema analysis question on what features may be numerical.
For this exercise, as I mentioned,
we'll use the UCI heart disease dataset.
However, we will use a different dataset with the same schema.
Based off the schema provided,
what are likely to be numerical features?
So I took a look at the schema,
and here are the features that I came up with.
I chose these features because they are non-discrete values,
and they had an ordinal sequence.
However, there could be multiple interpretations for certain features as well.
Next, I wanted you to provide the number of missing/zero values for each field.
As we learned in the lesson,
knowing this information can help inform our imputation strategy,
where we may decide to remove a row or impute with a statistical value like mean,
median, or mode, or even have a zero or dummy value.
We're going to start to do some EDA and do some basic profile of a dataset.
So for this task,
I counted the null values and zero values for each column.
You can see the output table below.
Notice in this case,
that the chol field has all zeros.
Why is this the case?
A possibility is that the chol field might be
all zeros because of how this value was imputed for null values.
This is good information to surface and explore further later with your team.
Maybe this could be a data pipeline issue,
or this field might just have all null values.
Next, let's go to the value distribution part.
For the cp field,
you can see the histogram visualization that I provided using the seaborne library.
Feel free though to use Pandas in
the plot function like I did in the lesson video if you prefer.
For the next part,
I visualized the old peak field,
and you can see that it has a normal distribution.
Now let's move on to the outlier analysis part.
One possible feature that you could pick with outliers using
the IQR in box plot visualization is the age feature.
You can see these outliers tend to be at the bottom of the age range.
This makes intuitive sense when you think about
the age range of most heart disease patients.
However, taking the next step of possibly removing outliers,
will require further analysis since there may be some other issues you may discover.
Finally, let's move on to the last part where we analyze for high cardinality.
I've provided some code where I added diagnosis code field to the dataset.
First, I need to identify which fields are categorical features though.
You can see this list that I provided.
These are mostly discrete values and opposite of
the non-discrete values that I mentioned earlier for numerical features.
So using the code that I provided,
you can see the list below and the output table of cardinality for each feature.
Which feature has high cardinality in this dataset?
It should be pretty obvious that the principle diagnosis code field has high cardinality.
Identifying high cardinality fields will be important
later when we look at ways to reduce dimensionality through grouping.
Great job with this analysis.